todo.md, before:

# ToDo
ToDo file for Snooker Scores. Maintained from 2025-07-14 on.

## FixMe

## ToDo
- [ ] helper methods in SnookerScores
    - [ ] identify helper methods, add leading underscore
        - [*] _display_startup_message
        - [*] _display_hotkeys
        - [*] _store_players_names
        - [*] _prompt_for_player_names
        - [*] _get_players_name
        - [ ] _last_colored_ball_phase
        - [ ] _colored_balls_phase
- [*] display startup message
    - [*] get message from txt/startup_messages.txt
    - [*] display random message
    - [ ] add messages to txt/startup_messages.txt

## In Progress
- [ ] Live tests with videos of snooker games
    - [*] Live tests 1 - 85
    - [*] 86. Williams vs Zhao: 44 - 47
    - [ ] 87. 

## Done
- [*] store_players_names()
    - [*] misleading variable name player_names
    - [*] split store_players_names into prompt function and store function
- [*] colored_balls_phase: player x missed the y ball:
    - [*] player x failed to pot the y ball
- [*] store_players_names + get_player_name
    - [*] refactor
- [*] add '0' to txt/hotkeys.txt, displayed from display_startup_message()
- [*] refactor display_startup_message() : create display_hotkeys()
- [*] set_up_game(): add call of display_hotkeys()
- [*] test_initialization.py:
    - [*] prompt_for_player_names()
    - [*] store_players_names()
    - [*] get_player_name()
- [*] start program from snooker_scores.py, remove main.py
- [*] COLORED_BALLS
    - [*] Check if dictionary self.colored_balls is used anywhere
        - [*] colored_balls_phase()
        - [*] display_colored_ball_to_play()
    - [*] rename self.colored_balls to COLORS
- [*] readme.md
    - [*] check Requirements section
    - [*] remove obsolete/abundant sections
- [*] rename variable self.yellow_ball:
    - [ ] first_color
    - [ ] end_game_color
    - [ ] dedicated_color
    - [*] color_in_line

## Fixed
- [*] red ball accidentally potted
    - [*] change else condition in handle_red_ball()
    - [*] test changed else condition in handle_red_ball()
- [*] test_ball_handling
    - [*] test_handle_red_ball_when_color_needed
- [*] test_game_state.py
    - [*] test_restart_game_yes() (test hangs)
    - [*] test_restart_game_invalid_then_valid() (test fails)
- [*] test_initialization.py
    - [*] test_get_player_name_empty() (test hangs)

## Abandoned
- [ ] GUI
- [ ] explanation on when to use hotkey 'm'
- [ ] replace shot == 0 for missed shot with shot == 'm'
    - [ ] red_balls_phase()
    - [ ] get_shot_value()
    - [ ] handle_miss()
    - [ ] handle_hotkeys()
- [ ] explanation on when to use hotkey 'r'
- [*] main() in snooker_scores.py
    - [*] remove calls of functions
    - [*] print message about running main.py instead of running the module

Commit message:

Add task run_of_the_balls, helper methods

todo.md, after:

# ToDo
ToDo file for Snooker Scores. Maintained from 2025-07-14 on.

## FixMe

## ToDo
- [ ] helper methods in SnookerScores
    - [ ] identify helper methods, add leading underscore
        - [*] _display_startup_message
        - [*] _display_hotkeys
        - [*] _store_players_names
        - [*] _prompt_for_player_names
        - [*] _get_players_name
    - [ ] create run_of_the_balls method to hold the helper methods below
    - [ ] call run_of_the_balls instead of red_balls_phase
        - [ ] _red_balls_phase
        - [ ] _last_colored_ball_phase
        - [ ] _colored_balls_phase
- [*] display startup message
    - [*] get message from txt/startup_messages.txt
    - [*] display random message
    - [ ] add messages to txt/startup_messages.txt

## In Progress
- [ ] Live tests with videos of snooker games
    - [*] Live tests 1 - 85
    - [*] 86. Williams vs Zhao: 44 - 47
    - [ ] 87. 

## Done
- [*] store_players_names()
    - [*] misleading variable name player_names
    - [*] split store_players_names into prompt function and store function
- [*] colored_balls_phase: player x missed the y ball:
    - [*] player x failed to pot the y ball
- [*] store_players_names + get_player_name
    - [*] refactor
- [*] add '0' to txt/hotkeys.txt, displayed from display_startup_message()
- [*] refactor display_startup_message() : create display_hotkeys()
- [*] set_up_game(): add call of display_hotkeys()
- [*] test_initialization.py:
    - [*] prompt_for_player_names()
    - [*] store_players_names()
    - [*] get_player_name()
- [*] start program from snooker_scores.py, remove main.py
- [*] COLORED_BALLS
    - [*] Check if dictionary self.colored_balls is used anywhere
        - [*] colored_balls_phase()
        - [*] display_colored_ball_to_play()
    - [*] rename self.colored_balls to COLORS
- [*] readme.md
    - [*] check Requirements section
    - [*] remove obsolete/abundant sections
- [*] rename variable self.yellow_ball:
    - [ ] first_color
    - [ ] end_game_color
    - [ ] dedicated_color
    - [*] color_in_line

## Fixed
- [*] red ball accidentally potted
    - [*] change else condition in handle_red_ball()
    - [*] test changed else condition in handle_red_ball()
- [*] test_ball_handling
    - [*] test_handle_red_ball_when_color_needed
- [*] test_game_state.py
    - [*] test_restart_game_yes() (test hangs)
    - [*] test_restart_game_invalid_then_valid() (test fails)
- [*] test_initialization.py
    - [*] test_get_player_name_empty() (test hangs)

## Abandoned
- [ ] GUI
- [ ] explanation on when to use hotkey 'm'
- [ ] replace shot == 0 for missed shot with shot == 'm'
    - [ ] red_balls_phase()
    - [ ] get_shot_value()
    - [ ] handle_miss()
    - [ ] handle_hotkeys()
- [ ] explanation on when to use hotkey 'r'
- [*] main() in snooker_scores.py
    - [*] remove calls of functions
    - [*] print message about running main.py instead of running the module
